Hello, everyone out there in the live stream. Thanks for being here. And we're about to
get started. And I've got a bunch of great stuff for you. So, yeah. You guys ready?
>> Yeah. Let's do it. >> All right. I got to remember what episode
we're on and all these things. The numbers just keep going, Brian. Hello, and welcome
to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This
is episode 216, recorded January 13th, 2021.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- I'm Brian Okken.
- And Brian, we have a special guest, Yousef.
Welcome.
- Hi.
- Great to have you here.
You wanna just take a quick moment
and tell folks about yourself,
maybe about your podcast real quick?
- Yeah, sure.
Thanks for even being able to participate in this podcast.
So my name is Yousef.
I might not be well known as you guys are for sure.
I'm a mechanical engineer from Germany,
I'm based in Germany as well,
and I'm working for IT company called SimScale,
who are providing cloud-based simulation technology.
On the side, I'm hosting a podcast called Engineered Mind,
and I'm working on a bunch of other stuff.
For example, my thesis, which we'll extensively cover,
let's see, in this podcast.
- Yeah, yeah, you used a couple of cool libraries
and stuff over there, which we'll feature here.
All right, well, the very first item, Brian,
Ron, let's talk about maybe doing a,
should I do a pip search a lot?
- Yeah, well, I kind of forgot pip search was a thing
'cause when I'm looking for PyPI stuff,
I go to pypi.org and just-
- Yeah, so do I, that's, yeah, exactly.
It's really fast there.
- Yeah, but there's a feature called a pip.
you can do a pip search, which the documentation says
it's supposed to search for pypi packages,
whose name or summary contains whatever query.
So I can say pip search pytest, for instance,
and it should show me if pytest is a package on pypi.
But right now, if you do that,
it comes back with a big trace back and it says,
Fault, what, minus 3,200, 500?
Runtime error.
X, the pipe is XML.
Anyway, the API is broken.
So this is on purpose.
What happened is,
actually, I don't know really what's happened,
but there's,
the service is getting swamped.
The search endpoint is getting hit extremely hard.
So- - I saw some message
there's some tweet that was to the effect of,
is somebody out there running an insane number of searches
against this endpoint?
Please don't.
- Yeah, I don't know what's going on,
but so there's some guesses,
maybe it's a rogue continuous integration server
or something weird's going on.
But in the meantime, right now,
we're gonna link to a Python infrastructure status page,
which has an update on this.
So if anybody wants to follow, you can check that out.
It says that the search endpoint remains disabled
due to ongoing request volume.
And I think this really started becoming a problem
mid-December, and so I'm not sure what happened then.
And then there's a related issue on GitHub for pip.
So there's an issue open saying remove the pip search command.
So I think the end result is-- and even the error message
says the search endpoint will be deprecated in the near future.
So I think that this way to do pip search
is just going to go away.
So--
And--
That's actually a little surprising
because usually a lot of these things
are so backwards compatible.
Yeah.
And there's quite a discussion on the issue thread,
but the gist of it is the current architecture
is not, was never designed to handle the volume
it's getting right now.
So there's a comment at the end of the thread
that says if you've got an idea
for how to do this algorithm better,
or a way to do it scaled, go ahead and discuss it.
But there's a link to,
we're not gonna put that link in the show notes,
but in the IPI thread or the GitHub thread,
there's a link to, if you want to comment on that.
But basically, we're bringing this up.
You may have figured out it might be a fluke or whatever,
but it's really going on.
And a plea to look at your continuous integration scripts.
And if you're doing a pip search in there, take those out.
It ain't gonna work anyway.
- It's gotta be some kind of bot,
some automatic thing like this,
because it's already given the error message.
Like people would stop, you know, if it wasn't.
Maybe somebody is trying, like constantly trying
to scrape all of the PyPI data out.
I don't know.
- Yeah, why do it?
It's searched, that's just weird.
- Yeah, exactly.
I don't know what's going on here,
but I guess don't do it.
- Don't do it.
- Doctor, it hurts when I do this, stop doing that.
So the next one I wanna talk about is QPython,
not QTPython or Qt or anything like that,
but QPython, which is a way to do Python on Android.
So we've talked about a couple of interesting applications.
We've talked about Carnets or Carnet.
I think it's French pronunciation I've been told.
And that's a really cool way to do like Jupyter on iPad.
So local, all of these are local,
obviously not just running in the browser.
There's Pythonista, which is really interesting.
And QPython is also an interesting one
for a couple reasons,
'cause you get an SDK and a REPL for your Android device,
which is pretty interesting.
But what the reason I'm covering it,
I think it's interesting.
Somebody, I think somebody sent this over.
No, I ran across this myself.
Anyway, is it allows you just to integrate
with the underlying Android APIs and features for automation.
Yeah, cool, right?
So you can do things like check the system,
you can send out toast notifications,
you can interact with applications,
you can mess with the clipboard,
you can do barcode scanning, speech recognition,
send emails, like all those kinds of things
around even screen brightness,
checking your battery or whatever.
So if you wanna get access
and automate your Android things with Python,
well, here's a cool little app to do it.
- Okay, wait a second.
So I'm not an Android user that much.
I've got like one Android tablet,
but I didn't know it can make toast.
- Yeah, well, it really prefers sourdough,
but it will go even as far as rye if you have to.
- No, what's Toast?
Do you know what Toast is?
- It's like a pop-up notification, I think.
- Oh, okay.
(both laughing)
- Josef, are you an Android person or an iPhone person?
- I have to confess I'm an iPhone person.
I used to be completely against iPhone,
but once you're in the ecosystem, you never get out.
- It's like the godfather,
they just keep pulling you back in, man.
Yeah, I just recently got a new iPhone as well,
and I'm general about it,
But because we have our mobile apps, the training for the courses, I've got an Android tablet
and I've got an Android phone and so on.
Oh, also, we've got a comment here on YouTube.
So is it an own framework or can you use it in Android, Kotlin and Java?
I believe it's more like an app that you run.
And then within that, you can do little jobs and stuff.
So way to aesthetic.
It's not something you can bring in, that I'm aware of,
'cause you install it from Google Play, for example,
to get started and so on.
But maybe you can plug it in.
They do talk about having SDK, so possibly,
but I got the sense that's more for writing code outside
than getting it on your device.
But yeah, pretty cool.
So if you're into Android
and you wanna do Python automation on it,
this is pretty cool.
It's free, get it on the Android store.
It apparently has ads, but it's also open source.
So go with that.
- Do you know if there's a counterpart for iOS?
- I don't know about the automation side.
There's a thing called Carnets, which is really cool.
Let's see if I can find that.
I believe that's how you spell it.
Yes, that's Jupyter on the app store.
And that thing, I don't really want to open the app store,
but apparently I have to.
Well, so much for that, but Carnets, it's here.
- Oh, nice. - Oh, and it's also on Google Play.
Is that the same thing? No, it's a totally different thing.
But Carnet is a very cool app that lets you do something similar.
There's also Pythonista. Those are the two I know for iOS.
Yeah.
All right. So, moving along.
Yosef, maybe tell us a little bit about your research
and then one of the libraries you've been working with here.
Yeah, sure. So Open3D is one of the possibilities to visualize.
Yeah, yeah. Let's talk about PyTorch.
That's fine. So PyTorch 3D is basically an option, let's say, if you work with meshes,
that a mesh consists of edges and points, for example,
and these edges connect all the points and what you get at the end is a mesh.
So PyTorch, which is for Facebook, Facebook AI Research,
And they created this framework, so to speak, to be able to work efficiently with 3D data.
So unfortunately, I'm using point cloud data.
But the beautiful thing is that if you use PyTorch native application, which you could
use for your 3D geometry, it runs, I wouldn't say significantly, but roughly 10 times slower
than this PyTorch 3D, which is implemented especially for 3D problems.
Okay, so what kind of problem do people solve?
What problem are you solving when you're working with this?
Yeah, so in the beginning, it was like I was doing some kind of research.
Unfortunately, they are coming out paper like every day,
and not too many actually, in the field of deep learning,
especially when it comes to point cloud or like geometric data.
And the goal, just to inform the audience a bit, is my goal is basically to use deep learning
and use some kind of or create an assistant system for engineers and designers.
That means, let's say you're an engineer, and we have this CAD model, so C-A-D,
which stands for computer-aided design. So we'd create a model, for example, of a gear.
And then you would have that gear. But sometimes we have this differentiation between implicit
knowledge and explicit knowledge. Explicit knowledge means this is existing knowledge,
which we already know about, let's say this knowledge, this knowledge can sit in a database.
And sometimes we are not making use out of it.
And then we have this implicit knowledge, let's say an engineer comes into a company
is completely new, and he brings knowledge with him to the company.
Now the problem I want to tackle is because we're having so many data and we're accumulating
geometric data in a company, we have to make use of that.
And my approach is hopefully when I'm at the end of the thesis, which is like in roughly
two months is that I have a system or web application as a front end where the engineer
or designer picks or starts a design or picks a point cloud or a design.
And then it would suggest the engineer or designer with a probability of what they want
to model.
Let's say he picks a gear, or maybe you want to have like an arrangement of gears or any
specific big component, or let's say you take a wheel.
Okay.
For example, transmission or something.
for transmission, or they pick a wheel, and it could be a Tesla or it could be any other
car.
And then it would give you a probability, okay, this wheel is maybe from a Tesla.
And then it would give suggest you a Tesla with a, for example, 89% probability.
And then you would click on the web application.
This is the idea.
And then it would pop the geometry into the web browser in the front end.
Oh, that's pretty cool.
So it basically it's like image recognition.
instead of for pictures, it's image recognition for 3D CAD
outlines.
Exactly. It's so cool that you mentioned it, because there's a
big difference between doing a convolutional neural networks or
deep learning for images because images are 2d. It's like a 2d
matrix. But if you have a point cloud, then you have a tensor of
higher dimensionality. And then you are kind of forced to use,
for example, NumPy, and all these kind of things. And if
you're lucky, you could use something like pytorch, pytorch
3D, which you can also use Qt on to be way more efficient.
Yeah, yeah. Wow, that's really cool. So it looks like a neat
thing. This is, you know, I haven't done any 3D work for a
while. But yeah, it looks, looks pretty cool. I would love to see,
I don't know, some pictures and stuff. It would not be neat. But
yeah,
they have a very good like, if someone is interested in seeing
what pytorch 3D can do, Facebook AI Research has an own YouTube
channel and they pitched PyTorch 3D on that channel.
And they really do a nice,
they show you what you can do with it.
So it's really interesting.
- Yeah. Oh, awesome.
Why I guess I'd never really thought about applying,
you know, AI ML stuff to 3D meshes,
but it makes perfect sense.
And I can see it's totally different than images.
- Yeah.
Very cool.
Brian, do you guys do any,
you don't do any CAD stuff with your devices, do you?
- Well, I mean, yeah, some people do.
(laughing)
- Not me.
- There's a lot of chaos that goes on
in the ASIC design and stuff.
- Yeah, I can imagine.
Yeah, cool.
All right, now, before we get to the next one,
I wanna get something sorted out, Brian.
- Okay.
- I wanna talk about Datadog.
So they're back to support the show.
Thank you, Datadog.
Yay!
And so they're really about helping you
troubleshoot latency, CPU, memory bottlenecks in your apps.
And if you don't know where it's coming from,
Datadog will seamlessly correlate the logs and the traces
at the level of individual requests across systems,
allowing you to quickly troubleshoot your Python app.
And they have a continuous profiler that allows you to
find the most resource consuming parts of your app
in production, just running all the time at any scale,
and it has very little overhead.
So that's pretty cool.
Instead of trying to debug it and then deploy it
and hope that kind of translates to production,
just turn it on and watch.
So yeah, that's cool.
So be the hero that got that app back on track
at your company, get started with a free trial
and support the podcast at pythonbytes.fm/datadog
or just click the link in your podcast player show notes.
Now that that's sorted out, Brian.
- Yeah.
Yeah, so sorting.
Sorting is a thing.
And the default Python containers are not sorted.
And there's reasons behind that,
but sometimes you need to sort stuff.
So there's a Python library called,
or a package called sorted containers.
I like it.
It's a very, I mean, I like the name at least.
It's a very easy to remember sort of thing.
But this is amazing.
I looked into this.
So this was recommended by Finch and Bao recently
for us to take a look at.
And it's a pure Python based,
sorted collections library.
And it's as fast as other packages
that are built using C extensions.
- Wow.
- That's the impressive part.
It's also fairly memory safe,
but the documentation is pretty cool.
There's a whole bunch of different benchmarks.
So you can take a look at how it deals
with large things, but it was really pretty zippy.
It was pretty cool.
The right on the front page, there's some,
there's some example,
and we're gonna throw this in the show notes too,
of just, there's, you've got,
it handles a handful of different data types.
It shows sorted list, sorted dictionaries, and sorted set.
There's also a sorted key list,
and I had to look that up to figure out what that was.
So sorted, the sorted function within Python
allows you to pass in a key,
which the key really is a function to use
to create a key for sorting.
- Right, 'cause the things in there
might not have a natural sort, right?
Like if you put a bunch of order objects in there,
well, how do you sort those?
Do you sort them by price?
Do you sort them by date?
Yeah, right, so you select out that element, yeah?
- Yeah, you should have it selected out.
Or you can do something like they might be sortable
by default, but you want it to be like a reverse sort
or something like that.
- Right.
- So, and there's some caveats listed
so that you have to make sure that your,
the key you pass in, it follows some conventions
like two identical items should be,
should have the same key, stuff like that.
That's all reasonable things.
But it's a fairly easy and complete package
to just use it looks, it acts just sort of like a normal,
the normal thing, containers like lists
and dictionaries and sets.
It just remains sorted all the time.
And this is pretty incredible.
- Yeah, I can totally see bugs get into your code
'cause you're like, well, we put stuff into this list
and oh, I want the latest one, so it's the last one,
but maybe you forgot to sort it before you did that
or the first one's the last
'cause you reversed it or whatever.
So one of the things that confused me
when I first looked at this,
I was scratching my head for a second
'cause it looks like a fairly simple set of like examples
with just like small set of elements in it.
So like the first one is a list of like A, B, E, A, C, D, B,
just a few characters.
And it's a whole bunch of these examples
with just a little small amounts.
And it says underneath,
it says all of the demo listed above
takes a gigabyte of memory.
And I'm like, what the heck?
Why is it taking so much memory?
(laughing)
- It's only five things, come on.
- Yeah, I mean, like why?
- I'm gonna keep, don't worry about it.
- But there's hidden in there,
there's an example of that five character list,
sorted list that gets multiplied by 10 million.
So it's a 10, like a 50 million.
- 50 million characters in a list that got sorted, right?
- Yeah, so, and then like things like,
and then all the operations like count.
So you can say, count all the Cs in there.
It'll tell you how many there are.
And all of, a lot of these operations like counting stuff
with a sorted set, take, you know, less than linear time.
So yeah, so there's times you need sort
and this is a cool one to check out.
- Yeah, it's cool.
It's nice that it's pure Python,
super easy to install, right?
It's not going to have any like weirdness around that like if you say got an m1 computer and thing won't compile or whatever
No, this looks really cool yousef. What do you think?
This looks amazing. i'm also
I'm in touch with my brother. Um on the side and he's also watching
Our office at the moment and he's also saying because of the one gigabyte memory for sorting is it's incredible. It's crazy
- Yeah, that's pretty awesome.
I guess it's just showing like you can have a ton
and it's all nice.
So it's, I mean, it seems really straightforward
but having these things sorted,
we just got dictionaries that would stay put.
So having sorted dictionaries is also cool.
Right, it used to be that they sort of,
if they had the same keys and stuff
or they wouldn't necessarily retain their order
of the things you added, but now they do.
- Right, so if people are confused and think,
well, aren't dictionaries already sorted?
No, they just stay in the order that they were created.
- Exactly.
Yeah, similar, but not exactly the same thing.
All right, so I wanna, this next one,
I wanna riff a little bit on typing
and I wanna do that around a tweet,
which I think I've got to put into a different type of,
hold on.
For some reason, Twitter has stopped showing me
like the entire conversation of things.
I don't know why, but I guess it doesn't really matter.
So Lucas Lenga responded to a tweet that went out there.
You know, Lucas is obviously he's core developer.
He's been doing really important stuff,
but one of the main focuses that he's been working on
is around type hints and typing with things like mypy.
He was instrumental in bringing typing to Facebook
and the Instagram code bases and things like that.
So there's a tweet that says controversial take types in a Python code base are a net negative
That's not lucas. This is his he's about to have a whole long conversation about this that i'm gonna talk about but
um
Brian, what do you think?
You retweeted this them's fighting words, them's is fighting words
Yeah
So yeah, what do you think?
I think that they're good.
Yeah, I do too. I think
When I first saw them I was a little concerned like oh my goodness. This is going to potentially
you know
Turn python into something like typescript
And while I appreciate what typescript does to make javascript much better
I almost always walk away from working with typescript with a feeling of like, ah that kind of hurt and was painful
I wonder why it had to go that way, you know
Because the TypeScript requires, it's like,
it's like C# or C++,
the types have to match and they have to be there.
And if they don't match at all,
then it just won't work, right?
It's super frustrating.
Oh, this thing is not defined.
And you know, there's,
because there's libraries that might not have types.
And then how do you work with them?
It's just if I find it,
there's always some little edge case.
It's like, oh, this is frustrating.
But I never feel that way with Python.
And I really have come to love Python's type hints.
And obviously, Lucas starts out his conversation saying,
"This is easily disproven."
If you ever use PyCharm or VS Code,
the code completion in there is based on type annotations.
If you've ever seen your editor highlight a function
and squiggly say, "This expects something else than what you're giving it,"
besides the number of variables,
but like you're giving it a string and it wants a number or something like that,
you're using type annotations.
And you can enhance your code by doing that, right?
So I was actually talking to Yusef about this yesterday.
My philosophy, or maybe my rule of thumb
is you don't have to always do it this way,
but if you're working in your editor
and you have to type more than say three characters
to get some kind of symbol to come up,
you're probably doing it wrong.
So like if you have email service
and you wanna have email service send account email,
you should be able to say .sae,
and it should know the type that's been returned,
what an email service is, that it has this property,
and just write it for you.
So to me, a lot of the typing stuff,
I mean, this comment is somewhat about bugs,
like I never found a good bug because of this.
To me, that's almost like a side benefit.
It's about quickly generating code
without stopping to go look at the code definition,
without going over to the documentation
to see what I could have typed over here.
the documentation to see what I could have typed over here.
You know, it's for example, AWS people,
this is insanely frustrating to work with AWS
because you get these like weird,
create this service and you give it a name
and then you get an S3 service back,
but it has no idea that it's an S3 service.
So you get zero help on what anything,
even I think go to definition doesn't quite work
because it's, you know, use some factory method
to reach down some weird place and get the thing.
So I think really driving the code generation experience
without being in documentation,
without jumping around and reading all the source,
just go for it.
I think it's super nice.
So to me, that is the biggest win of all of this stuff.
So let me--
- The entire thread is very interesting.
So--
- So let me touch on a couple of the points of the thread
'cause I can't get it to come up in the screen share,
but that's fine.
I took notes, luckily.
So some of the things he pointed out,
he's like, here's tweet one of 10.
So number one, put enough annotations,
and then the tooling will connect the dots
and make plenty of errors evident,
as well as like heighten this code generation,
auto magic, right?
That's one.
The most common types of errors though,
that'll creep in is if none is being used
where you expect a concrete type.
And things like mypy will say,
you're using a type that is an optional of something,
but you're not checking to see if it's none
before you dereference it.
You're probably gonna end up at some point
with an attribute, none type does not contain attribute,
whatever you tried to do, you know, upper or whatever.
- None is not scriptable or subscriptable.
- Yes, so yeah, something like that, right?
Or callable or any of the things.
Also, another common bug is the return case.
So if you've got a function, you can maybe check something
and return one value, check something else,
return another value.
But if you forget at the end and you fall through
and you don't put up some kind of concrete return type,
Python functions just return none.
Like this actually blew me away when I learned Python
and I learned about functions
that they always, always, always return something.
There's no such thing as a void function in Python.
- Yeah.
- All right, as a C++ person,
that probably surprised you too, right?
Like with your C++ background.
- I did a bunch of other Perl and stuff like that.
So it wasn't too bad.
But the return type is actually
one of the greatest documentation features as well,
because sometimes you can kind of figure out
what the parameters are gonna look like.
Think, you know, you can guess.
But what's the return type?
Is it going to be a list? Is it going to be a tuple?
Is it going to be a single element?
What if there's more than one element?
Yeah, having type hints around return types
is a great feature.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, let me touch on a couple more
and I see some listener comments in the stream as well.
Squiggly lines in your editor, anyone?
Like I just got this the other day.
I thought I was supposed to pass an object ID,
the primary key Mongo, but we overwritten it
and it's actually a string and said you're passing object ID
when you expect a string.
I'm like, oh, yeah, I guess I am.
All right, well, change that, right?
That's really nice instead of that being a runtime error.
And he talks about the work with TypeScript
and Anders Halsberg and what he did to help build that.
And TypeScript, like I said, is pretty neat.
But he also points out that, you know,
the same company Microsoft is developing
powerful type checking and code completion
for Python with VS Code.
And they have one of the Python steering council folks
working on there, hint, maybe that's Brett.
And also possibly the Python creator himself, Guido.
So do you think those two people
would be working on something
that just provides the illusion of productivity?
Probably not.
So let's see a couple of comments.
Chris May, hey Chris, happy to see you out there.
He says, "Code completion is such a confidence builder too."
I think it's so awesome because for me,
it's both amazing for beginners
because they can type dot and go, now what?
And for experts, they can just blast out code so quickly
because you just type dot a few things
and you know, like you said, with confidence,
you just keep going.
- A lot of these-- - Oh, you go, Brian.
- Oh, sorry, a lot of these features,
you get them if everybody around you
writing the code that you're using is using type hints.
You don't necessarily need to use type hints yourself,
but then you're being a bad citizen
and not helping the people out that you're sharing code with.
So if you don't share code at all,
and you're only working on projects with yourself,
then go ahead, don't use type-ins.
- It's up to you, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
Yusef, what do you think?
Do you guys use type-ins on your project?
- No, not really.
It's not something that's in our conscious mind,
I would say.
I'm not sure if that's also something
really because you're an engineer.
I wouldn't want to generalize,
but engineers are usually bothered with the problem itself
rather than digging down on the types, for example.
It depends also what language you use.
- Yeah, it's a bit of a computer science-y topic,
I can see, but yeah, I just, like I said,
I love how it generates the content so much easier.
Maxson also commented, I love, for example, Pydantic,
but I agree with Romalo, Luciano Romalo,
who was in this thread.
Hopefully it won't be required in Python
to help people get started.
Yeah, so I think the typing stuff is really interesting.
Like Pydantic, we've talked about a bunch.
It's a super interesting example of really using typing
to generate cool data ingestion and processing.
Like if you say I've got a Pydantic model
and one of its fields is a list of integers,
but you give it a list and the things in the list
happen to be strings that could be integers,
it'll automatically convert it
and stuff like that is really fantastic.
I think that's always going to be an add-on type of thing.
Yeah, even though I'm a fan of type hints,
I don't use them all the time,
and I would be very opposed to having them be required.
Yes, I would too. I would too.
I don't think they need to be on the whole code base.
I mean, it depends if your goal is to say,
"I want to use them for my.py or my.pyc
and completely generate stuff."
But if your goal really is to get a little bit of help
with editors, just having it on the boundaries,
like, "Here's the data access layer.
the things that come out of there return whatever.
And you don't have to do anything else
and the editors will pick it up and run.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right, one quick question.
What is a function return if there is no return?
It returns none.
So that's why you don't ever just say
whether there's a return type, it always returns none.
All right, next up,
I guess we got the one I tried to open with there, Yusef,
is Open3D.
That looks fun.
- Yeah, this is basically a library
which you could use in Jupyter, which I tried to use,
but somehow they, at the moment,
have problems using Open3D.
So what you can do is you call Open3D
in your Jupyter notebook
and then have the point cloud visualized.
However, there are some ways around it,
but Open3D, I think if I would start all over again,
I would probably use Open3D
to visualize my point cloud,
which I'm actually working with in my Jupyter notebook.
I'm not sure if using a Jupyter notebook
is also something you would recommend personally,
maybe Brian and Michael,
if you're a fan of Jupyter notebooks.
I think it depends on the application.
- I think it depends as well.
And to me, it really depends on what I'm trying to do
and like the kind of code.
Am I trying to explore data
and does it have a really strong visualization component
or is it like a utility type thing?
So for example, one of the things that I wrote recently
that I would never put into a Jupyter notebook,
but I find really helpful is we've got
literally thousands of video files,
MP4s and whatnot for the online courses.
And in order to import them,
one of the things I have to tell the database
is how long in seconds is each file
and where does it live and stuff.
So I've got a little script and I just say,
go to this directory and generate a little JSON output
for all of the files and parse them
and tell me how long they are.
Like that kind of app doesn't belong there, right?
It's just, that's a command line type
of utility type of thing.
But if I wanna visualize something like this,
I think it may well be really good for it actually.
So I think it varies.
- Yeah, there's a lot of application parts of my work
that I think using a Jupyter Notebook
actually might be more beneficial.
So I'm often taking big, huge trace data and stuff
for like spectrum traces.
And those could easily be driven from a Jupyter notebook
and with the visualization stuff would be good.
- Yep.
Yeah, cool.
So this thing is a set of both C++ and Python libraries
for basically working with 3D Meshes, right?
- Mostly 3D data, for example, if you use a LiDAR,
so when you work with a laser and...
This looks, for example, great.
I never watched the video, but if you scan objects
in your surroundings, usually what you get is a point cloud,
and which you can then visualize using Open3D.
And the big disadvantage with point clouds
is that they're kind of unstructured.
So you could have one matrix representing one point cloud,
and you could have the same matrix switching two points,
but the matrix would be different.
So this is also a problem that a lot of papers
try to tackle and make sure that,
yeah, get around this bottleneck.
- Nice, yeah, the example video here is using
open 3D for 3D object detection, which is,
that's pretty wild.
- Yeah, nice.
- The things people do these days.
- I know, I think it's really interesting
all this image processing analysis stuff.
Yeah.
- Good question, Brian, by the way.
This is what I ask myself when I listen to Python bytes.
As an engineer, what are you guys doing?
It's great.
(laughing)
- Absolutely.
Cool, all right, well, that's it for all of our main items.
Brian, you got anything extra
that you wanna throw out there?
- Yeah, I just wanted a couple of things.
One, 2021 has been exhausting so far.
- Yeah.
- I don't know if anybody else has got the same experience,
but wow.
And also I've got a lot of extra projects,
side projects that I'm working on right now.
Python Bytes is one of them,
but there's other stuff going on as well,
trying to do more writing.
And because of that,
testing code has shifted to an every other week cadence.
So it's not going away.
I know a lot of, oddly enough, I've had a lot of feedback
in the last couple of months of people saying,
"Thank you for the podcast, I've learned so much."
So I do not, I don't wanna shut it down.
I wanna keep it going.
And there's no plans on shutting it down.
It's just slowing down so that I have room in my life
for other projects as well.
So just wanted to let people know that.
- Yeah, cool.
Yeah, I try to, for a Talk Python,
batch it up and do a whole bunch.
Just say, "This week, I'm just gonna get nothing done,
"but I'll do a ton of recording."
and then just roll them out.
I had three months of stuff done in like a week and a half.
I was, I really needed a break after that,
but then I was good.
- Cool.
- Yeah, cool.
Well, thanks for the update.
Yusef, anything you want to share
on the way out into the show?
- I just want to say thank you for letting me
or being able to participate in this quick and brief podcast
and keep doing what you do guys.
I follow you both on Twitter and what you share
and what you do is really amazing.
So it's really inspiring for an engineer
who wants to delve into the field of Python
and all fancy kind of things to listen to your podcast,
taking your courses or following you on social media.
It's just really great.
You learn a lot.
And I actually have to learn more, to be honest to myself.
- Yeah, I have to learn more.
It never stops.
- Yeah, that's right.
- Yeah, but that's awesome.
Thank you so much.
I really appreciate that.
- How about you, Michael?
- I have one quick thing.
driven by yours, a comment you had last time.
So Francisco Silva pointed out,
we had talked about some of the numpyc,
Pythonic, the idiomatic numpy stuff that you might do
and how like, instead of looping over stuff,
you can just like add, say like two numpy arrays
and it'll add them or you can dot product them
and whatnot, right?
So one of the things you can do,
I guess we also talked about like ones and zeros
to generate a pre-built list of those.
So one of the things he talked about
is the all close method.
So if you've got floating point numbers,
one of the things that's really frustrating
is like, are these equal?
Well, does it mean floating point numbers equal, right?
Like they could be so nearly the same, but not the same,
right, they could be within an insane amount of closeness,
right, like 10 decimal places and then a one, right?
So all close is like, well, if they're within,
you know, one one thousandth of each other,
consider them the same.
- Well, all close takes a bunch of parameters
that you can specify the tolerance though.
- Yeah.
Anyway, I thought that was cool.
Hey, while we're on the topic, I may as well throw out,
I've got it.
So I tried to use this method of using NumPy
and I ran into a problem.
So I'm hoping some data science people can help me
figure out how to solve it.
So my problem is just the simple thing.
If I've got two arrays,
I wanna see if all of the elements are element wise
less than or equal to the other element in the other array.
Okay, I can do that with NumPy,
but what I can't,
that assumes that all of the elements
are the same data type, like comparable.
If there are strings thrown in there, it doesn't work.
So obviously, I don't know if it's obvious,
but so I had to do some cleanup at a time,
but I don't know what the most, the best way is.
So reach out to me if you've got any.
- Awesome, yeah, I don't have an answer,
but I'm sure people do.
And a quick, quick comment here.
This is the one I wanna show.
Magnus Carlsen says, "Tip, I found out about Copier,
"an alternative to cookie cutter that can be run later
"as well to update the project to a newer template."
That's pretty cool. I hadn't heard of that.
And also, Toml spec has reached 1.0.
Parser might be added to the standard lib.
Also haven't covered that, but that's cool news.
Thanks for sharing, you guys.
And I guess...
Thanks for being here.
Yousef, thanks for joining us. And Brian, thank you as always, man.
- Thank you. - Thank you so much, guys.
- Bye, everyone. - Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]